[docs] Add guide for writing an integration (#1086)
DataDog/dd-trace-py: docs/contributing.rst

If you discussed your feature within an issue (as advised), there's a great
chance that the implementation appears doable in several steps. In order to
expedite the review process, we strongly advise to split your feature
implementation in small pull requests (if that is possible) so they contain a

> very small number of commits (a single commit per pull request being optimal).

Reviewer: As someone probably less familiar with this process, I'm not sure I entirely understand it. You need to make a separate PR for each commit? For example, when doing Mariadb, I feel like I just made one large PR. Was that incorrect?

Author: Yeah this is just the idea of keeping PRs focused which comes with many good properties (mergeability, revertability, readability, etc). For the latter part yeah that doesn't apply anymore since we squash-merge. When this section was written PRs were not squashed so you'd end up with a bunch of "fix typo" commits in the main branch.

Good catch! I'll remove this line :+1:ll

Versions of those implementations that are supported are the Python versions
that are currently supported by the community.

Code Style
==========

The code style is enforced by `flake8 <https://pypi.org/project/flake8>`_, its
configuration, and possibly extensions. No code style review should be done by
a human. All code style enforcement must be automatized to avoid bikeshedding
and losing time.

> How-to: Write an Integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How To Write an Integration
```

============================

An integration should provide concise, insightful data about the library or

> framework that will aid developers in monitor their application's health and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
framework that will aid developers in monitoring their application's health and
```

performance.

The best way to get started writing a new integration is to refer to existing
integrations. Looking at a similarly themed library or framework is a great
starting point. To write a new integration for ``memcached`` we might refer to
the existing ``redis`` integration as a starting point since both of these
would generate similar spans.

The development process looks like this:

  - Research the library or framework that is to be instrumented. Reading
    through its docs and code examples will reveal what APIs are meaningful to
    instrument.

  - Copy the skeleton module provided in ``templates/integration`` and replace
    ``foo`` with the integration name. The integration name typically matches
    the library or framework being instrumented::

      cp -r templates/integration ddtrace/contrib/<integration>

  - Create a test file for the integration under
    ``tests/contrib/<integration>/test_<integration>.py``.

  - Write the integration (see more on this below).

>   - Open up a draft PR using the `integration checklist
>     <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/integration.md>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Open up a draft PR using the `integration checklist
    <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/integration.md>`_.
```

I think (I'm not a RST parser myself)

    - Trace the duration of the request.
    - Assign a resource name for a route.
    - Use ``trace_utils.set_http_meta`` to set the standard http tags.
    - Have an :ref:`internal service` name.
    - Support distributed tracing (configurable).
    - Provide insight to middlewares and views.
    - Use the `SpanTypes.WEB` span type.

Some example web framework integrations::
    - `flask <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/flask>`_
    - `django <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/django>`_

Database libraries
++++++++++++++++++

``ddtrace`` already provides base instrumentation for the Python database API
(PEP 249) which most database client libraries implement in the
`ddtrace.contrib.dbapi <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/dbapi/__init__.py>`_
module.

Check out some of our existing database integrations for how to use the `dbapi`:

    - `psycopg <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/psycopg>`_

>     - `mysql <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/mysql>`_

Reviewer: Soon you can put Mariadb here instead ;)

Author: that's actually a good idea.... the docs and implementation are much better than mysql.... get it merged @ZStriker19 and we'll make it a reality!

Testing
+++++++

The tests must be defined in its own module in ``tests/contrib/<integration>/``.

Testing is the most important part of the integration. We have to be certain
that the integration:

    1) works: submits meaningful information to Datadog

    2) is invisible: does not impact the library or application by disturbing state,
       performance or raising exceptions

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a line suggesting to look at an integration that's similar to the one you're working on for reference on test creation?

> 

Reviewer: Should you talk about how to run tests and about test-agent snapshots?

Author: Yes we should! @ZStriker19 do you want to write up this section? Might be more valuable coming from you 😄

Versions of those implementations that are supported are the Python versions
that are currently supported by the community.

Code Style
==========

The code style is enforced by `flake8 <https://pypi.org/project/flake8>`_, its
configuration, and possibly extensions. No code style review should be done by
a human. All code style enforcement must be automatized to avoid bikeshedding
and losing time.

How-to: Write an Integration
============================

First off, thank you for writing a new integration! The best way to get started
writing a new integration is to refer to existing integrations. Looking at
a similarly themed library or framework is a great starting point. For example,
to write a new integration for ``memcached`` we might refer to the existing
``redis`` integration as a starting point since both of these would generate
similar spans.

The focal point of an integration is to provide concise, insightful information
about the library or framework that'll be useful for developers to monitor their
application's health and performance.

  **Notes**:

>     - Every integration must be defined in it's own folder in `ddtrace/contrib <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/master/ddtrace/contrib>`_ and contain an ``__init__.py`` file.

Reviewer 3: its*

       - ``__init__`` file should also contain information about configuring the integration manually as well as automatically e.g: `flask init file <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/master/ddtrace/contrib/flask/__init__.py>`_ , `asgi init file <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/majorgreys-sadipgiri/asgi/ddtrace/contrib/asgi/__init__.py>`_.

    - For automatic instrumentation: each integration module must have a ``patch()`` and ``unpatch()`` method. These are used to enable and disable integration.

>        - **For example**: `sanic automatic instrumentation <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/sadip/sanic2/ddtrace/contrib/sanic/patch.py>`_.

Reviewer 3: these links don't work :( we should update them

    - Gathering relevant information: exceptions usually contain a lot of
      relevant information for tracking down a bug. ``ddtrace`` provides
      a helper for pulling out this information and adding it to a span.
      See the `cassandra exception handling <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/cassandra/session.py#L117-L122>`_
      instrumentation for an example.

Distributed Tracing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Some integrations pass information across application boundaries to other
applications where the request is continued. Datadog and ``ddtrace`` provide
support for continuing a trace in another application. Distributed tracing only makes
sense for libraries that send or receive requests across application boundaries.

    - Propagating the trace example: `requests <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/requests/connection.py#L85-L88>`_
    - Receiving a propagated trace example: `Django <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/django/middleware.py#L116-L121>`_

> Web frameworks

Reviewer 3: Now that there are middlewares we should mention that we prefer people to use already existing middlewares if possible to standardize things (use starlette as an example)

++++++++++++++
Web frameworks centre around web requests and hence so does the tracing. A
web framework integration must do the following if possible:

    - Trace the duration of the request.

>     - Report HTTP status codes.

Reviewer 3: Use set_http_meta() helper in trace_utils.py to set http attributes (method, url, status code, query params, request headers)

>     - Have an :ref:`internal service` name.

Reviewer 3: update this with the current convention for service naming

    - Assign a resource name for a route.
    - Provide toggleable support for tracing query parameters (defaulting to off).
    - Support distributed tracing (configurable).
    - Provide insight to middlewares and views.

> 

Reviewer 3: Set SpanType to SpanType.WEB

    - `psycopg <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/psycopg>`_
    - `mysql <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/tree/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/ddtrace/contrib/mysql>`_

Testing
+++++++

Testing is the most important part of the integration. We have to be certain
that the integration:

    1) works: submits meaningful information to Datadog

    2) is invisible: does not impact the library or application by disturbing state,
       performance or raising exceptions

  *Notes*:
    - Each integration tests must be defined in it's own folder in ``ddtrace/tests/contrib/{module}/``.

Testing integrations is hard. There are often many versions of the library to go
along with the different versions of Python.

Testing checklist (with the ``redis`` integration as an example):

    - [ ] `tox.ini configuration <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/tox.ini#L97>`_
    - [ ] `docker-compose.yml configuration (if applicable) <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/docker-compose.yml#L37-L40>`_

>     - [ ] `.circleci/config.yml <https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/96dc6403e329da87fe40a1e912ce72f2b452d65c/.circleci/config.yml#L614-L624>`_

Reviewer 3: update these links

>     - [ ] Integration is configurable and all the configuration options are

Reviewer 3: Be specific about global vs integration specific configuration

configuration, and possibly extensions. No code style review should be done by
a human. All code style enforcement must be automatized to avoid bikeshedding
and losing time.

How-to: Write an Integration
============================

First off, thank you for writing a new integration! The best way to get started

> writing a new integration is to refer to existing integrations, preferably one

Reviewer 4: we might want to have this guide be the defacto example of how to write an integration instead of telling them to look at something existing.

what if `redis` becomes the old way of doing things?

that instruments a similarly themed library or framework. For example, to write
a new integration for ``memcached`` we might refer to the existing ``redis``
integration as a starting point.

The key focus of an integration is to provide concise, insightful information
about the library or framework that'll be useful for developers to monitor their application as a

> whole. The goal isn't to monitor the library itself per se, but to monitor how

Reviewer 4: hmm, this statement isn't entirely true.

it is mostly correct, but sometimes we do have to instrument internal pieces in order to show what is going on. e.g. we can't always just instrument the public api.

Reviewer 4: Also, should try to avoid fuzzy phrases like `per se`, etc.

We can make definitive comments here :)

the application is using and interacting with the library. So we care less about
the nitty-gritty underlying implementation details of the library and more so
about the public API in which developers interact with and know about.

There are a number of things to keep in mind while writing an integration:

Preserving Behaviour
++++++++++++++++++++

Arguably the most important aspect of the integration should be that it interferes

> in no way (or as little as possible) with the library or application. Attention

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in no way with the expected behavior of the library or application. Attention
```

?

should be paid to CPU and memory usage of the integration. It is also unacceptable

> for the integration to raise uncaught exceptions.

Reviewer 4: Wondering if we should break these points out into bullets?
